### Some Key Terms Related to Concurrency (Stallings: Table 5.1)



* Critical section
A section of code within a process that requires access to shared resources, and that must not be executed while another process is in a corresponding section of code.


* Mutual exclusion
The requirement that when one process is in a critical section that accesses shared resources, no other process may be in a critical section that accesses any of those shared resources.

## Zadanie 1
* Deadlock
A situation in which two or more processes are unable to proceed because each is waiting for one of the others to do something.

* Livelock
A situation in which two or more processes continuously change their states in response to changes in the other process(es) without doing any useful work.

* Starvation
A situation in which a runnable process is overlooked indefinitely by the scheduler; although it is able to proceed, it is never chosen

* message
A block of information that may be exchanged between processes as a means of communication.
## Zadanie 2
>Wymień cztery warunki konieczne do zaistnienia zakleszczenia. W jaki sposób programista może **przeciwdziałać** zakleszczeniom (ang. deadlock prevention)? Których z proponowanych rozwiązań nie implementuje się w praktyce i dlaczego?

Conditions for Resource Deadlocks:
1. Mutual exclusion condition. Each resource is either currently assign-
ed to exactly one process or is available.
2. Hold-and-wait condition. Processes currently holding resources that
were granted earlier can request new resources.
3. No-preemption condition. Resources previously granted cannot be
forcibly taken away from a process. They must be explicitly released
by the process holding them.
4. Circular wait condition. There must be a circular list of two or more
processes, each of which is waiting for a resource held by the next
member of the chain

## Zadanie 3
* Race condition
A situation in which multiple threads or processes read and write a shared data item, and the final result depends on the relative timing of their execution.


## Zadanie 4
* Atomic operation
A function or action implemented as a sequence of one or more instructions that appears to be indivisible; that is, no other process can see an intermediate state or interrupt the operation. The sequence of instruction is guaranteed to execute as a group, or not execute at all, having no visible effect on system state. Atomicity guarantees isolation from concurrent processes.
